How to install Ubuntu in windows 10?
First Step - Go to microsoft store.
Second step - search ubuntu and install,
third step - Go to control panel --> programs -->Turn on windows features on or off --> 
		drag side bar go to bottom --> tick mark to windows subsystem for linux --> restart your system.

fourth step - First open ubuntu and close it immediatey and gain open then it will work fine.



if you have windows 7,8 then you can install Cygwin
link : https://www.cygwin.com/install.html

If you want to practice on mobile 
termux 

UNIX 

Q.what is unix?
Unix is open source operating system.
It is widely used for networking purpose.
This can be used by its copywriters or license holder.
Flavours: IBM AIX,HP-Ux Sun Solaris etc.


Q.what is linux?
Linux is open operating system which is freely available to everyone.
Flavores: Ubuntu,Rehat,fedora,termux etc

Real time Unix - Putty Terminal

Unix is case sensitive i.e A-a here A -meaning is diffrent a- meaning is diffrent

Basic Commands
1.date 
It will display date and time.

syntax: date
O/P : Wed Mar 16 20:54:05 IST 2022

2.cal 
It will display current month calender

synatx:cal
ex : cal 2018
     cal march 2021
     cal 5 2020

3.who
Display current logged users in system 

syntax : who
O/P : praveen
      Naveen

4.who i am 
It will display current user information.

synatx: who i am
O/P : praveen 2022-03-16 6:45

5.whoami
It will display only user name.

synatx: whoami
O/P : root

6.hostname 
It will display system name or hostname

synatx: hostname

if we want to know the system IP address then we can use 

syntax : hostname -i

7.tty
It will display name of terminal.

synatx: tty
tty1 - print the file name of the terminal connected to standard input

8.whatis 
It will display command description.

synatx: whatis cammands name
ex: whatis tty

9.man
It will provide the complete Manual page realted to particular commnad with its syntax and options which is used in Linux.

syntax : man Commnad_name
ex : man tty ,man date etc.

Q.Tell me any 5 basic commands your across with?
Q.Which commnads your using in your project?
Q.Tell me your daily activities commnads used in putty terminal?


File Related Commands
1.touch
It is used to create empty or .txt file.

syntax : touch file_name

Q.How to create empty or simple .txt file in UNIX?

2.cat
This command is used for many purposes
1.Create file/it will overwrite existing file (syntax : cat > filename) 
2.display the content of file (syntax : cat  filename or cat < filename)
3.To append(add) data at the end of file (syntax : cat >> filename)
4.Concatenate more than one file (syntax : cat  filename1 filename2)
5.Copying many files into one file (syntax : cat  filename1 filename2 > filename3)

Q.What is the purpose of cat command?
Q.How we can over write a file?
Q.How to append data in a existing file without over writing?

3.more 
To show the content in a file.
We can't move up once the file is displayed but we can see the bottom file content by pressing ENTER button from keyboard.
It will disply, how much percentage of data has been displayed.

synatx : more filename

Two option
1.more +5(you can use any number) filename -it will start displying the file content from line 5 or row 5.
1.more -5 filename -it will start displying the file content from line 1 to line 5.

4.less
To show the content of file with 'END' keyword.
It is providing flexibility to move up and down inside the file by using arrow keys from keyboard.

syntax : less filename

5.head 
By default it will display top 10 records from file

syntax: head filename

we can display top2 line or top 2o lines by using below option

head -2 filename
head -29 filename

6.tail
By default it will display bottom 10 records from file 

syntax : tail filename

Q.How to display only 22nd record from file?




	



























































